The wind had stopped. It hadn't been this still in... well, a long time. It was hard to measure time on a planet with no seasons and inconsistent daylight. A planet that didn't even really have a name. Bechar's siblings called it Tunnae, but that was just a word from their ancestors' old tongue. It meant "home", but with a twist. Home that wasn't really home. Home that you had been away from for so long that it wasn't quite familiar when you got back. Home that you hadn't really settled into, but you were there and had nowhere else to go, so might as well make the best of it. Less "home", and more "here". More "this is where we are right now."

This was the only place Bechar had ever been. Bechar, like most people, didn't draw a distinction between the planet's surface and the chaotic orbital habitats. They were all part of Tunnae, neither comfortable or convenient, neither more or less "home" than the other, just part of life.

Bechar was crouched behind a rock, that might once have been a metal canister of some kind, but now was fully incorporated into the environment. The line between natural features and things that had been brought from elsewhere was very indistinct here. The only things that were for sure native were the himinies. Two long-limbed creatures in jetsuits with helmets that concealed their faces towered over one of the himinies a few strides from Bechar's position. The himinie was curled in a ball, which is what they typically did when threatened. Bechar's toes, plastic wrapped and insulated, curled into the cold mud beneath. Bechar's fists were balled tightly, every muscle tense. These beings must be offworlders, because nobody who called this planet Tunnae would treat a himinie this way.

Bechar wanted to intervene, but was still working on a strategy. The aggressors were at least three times Bechar's height, not that Bechar had much going in that department in the first place. And Bechar was.. not strong. Hiding, darting, slipping away. These were Bechar's strengths, and Bechar knew it well. It was a quiet time in an out-of-the-way spot. Nobody was likely to be passing by, on the ground or overhead, anytime soon. Bechar's backpack contained a handful of groundnuts, three large metal spoons (scavenged from the landscape earlier), and a single flare. Bechar contemplated the flare. It was probably just as likely to bring bad attention as help. With some strength and skill the sharp end of a spoon could definitely be purposed as a weapon, but Bechar had neither.

The tall beings stood as if they were in conversation with each other, but made no sound. This was common; their helmets would be transmitting audio between them on a private channel. Bechar _might_ be able to tap into the channel with the right equipment, and if the beings weren't being particularly careful. But the right equipment was back in the Den, and anyway, Bechar was still learning about that stuff. It would be helpful to know what they were planning to do with the himinie they had cornered. Bechar didn't know _how_ they had cornered the fuzzy little local, they were usually pretty hard to catch, and rarely alone. But there were all kinds of reasons for wanting to kidnap one. If you didn't know better.

As Bechar watched from hiding, one of the tall creatures extended a lengthy lower limb to poke at the heap on the ground, which didn't move. A heartbeat later, the ground beneath them swelled, then crumbled, and the tall creatures were suddenly buried up to their necks in dark silt. The himinie was gone altogether.

Bechar smirked. There were other himinies around after all. Small as they were, they could take care of themselves, and took care of their own. Under the ground was the domain of the himinies. Their network of tunnels under the planet's surface was unmapped, at least as far as Bechar knew. They were a long way from a Supply Hub here, which was usually the only place the himinies surfaced to interact with the planet's other residents.

Bechar just watched as the helmeted beings struggled in the mud. Their suits would protect them from the cold, but they wouldn't be able to survive there forever. A jetsuit should work in the mud after a short exposure, and Bechar wondered why they didn't activate them. Probably they had someone, some shuttle or ground trolley, they could call for a rescue. Better to leave before someone else got here. As Bechar turned, intending to wriggle away without being seen, there came a grating, slurping sound, and a tremble in the ground. Bechar looked back in time to see the reflective tops of two helmets disappearing into the surface.

Bechar hurried away. Unstable patches of ground and sinking mud were common out near the wetlands, but not here. That was not a natural occurrence. Unless you subscribed to the belief that anything the himinies did was natural. The himinies had done this alright. There was no other explanation.

-----

Maprush stood in line at the Supply Hub, wondering about Bechar's absence. Everyone else in the line was a little squirt of a child, doing their family duty.  Maprush towered over the tallest of them by a chest and a head. Bechar didn't make a habit of finding better things to do than pick up the food, but did have a habit of disappearing for several turns at a time and not checking a chronomark. The line shuffled forward. Kids passed by carrying backpacks or pulling suspended trolleys piled high with supplies, splitting off into every different direction as they left the Supply Hub from the other side. Maprush could not decide whether to be worried yet or not.

The temperature that day was weird. The drop in wind made it seem warmer than it usually was. Maprush had sleeves rolled up to elbows, exposing dark forearms, but hands remained clamped in sturdy polyfibre gloves. Maprush's hair, usually tightly wrapped under a scarf, was today bouncing free in a wild tangle. The unexpected calm was affecting everyone's mood, Maprush decided, so Bechar would be out of sorts as well.


------

Ma'Solloqay trudged along the sand, thinking about the names given to things retrospectively. Decads or centads after the fact. Someone somewhere decided to call a great event the Battle of Five Elms, or a certain era the Time of the Reigning Sails. The things that happened were condensed, simplified, reshaped to fit the name. Ma wondered what people of the future would call the time now, and the time after. After would be something like.. something with _union_ or _alliance_. If everything worked out like it was supposed to.

The thing is, Ma never intended to go into politics. Ma was an historian. Ma couldn't help but look back on things from the future, even a future that hadn't happened yet.

Waves rolled in tenderly to Ma's left. The sand underfoot was soft and damp, dusty yellow swirled with lines of black. Ma skirted around the occasional patches of grey and red pebbles, bare feet feeling too delicate to stand pressure of even the smoothest of stones. There was seaweed too, in odorous tangles.

The sun was setting, and offered it's final bursts of warmth from an orange sky. Ma's face turned towards it. The last day under this sun. The last day until whatever future historians would call _after_.

Sea birds called and from the distance came the sound of a child laughing, distorted by the air and rocks between. Besides the sea, no other sounds. Ma enjoyed, for a moment, the feeling of time being frozen. This world was perfect.

It had taken generations of work to make it so. It was the only world in the system that was entirely perfect. Others had pollution, deprivation, unfriendly climates. Pockets of problems amidst their idyllic majorities. It helped that Celastana was small and stable of course but that wasn't enough to eradicate all challenges of a populated planet. The rest had taken work. And unity. The others in the system were on track to join them. All worlds were in this together
